if you ask any kid what chocolate they
want they're going to tell you any one
of the big brands like kit kat snickers
m m's hershey's and why is that is it
because you're googling for these terms
of course not
these companies have massive brands if
you want to be a big company you have to
build a big global brand but how do you
do that without spending hundreds of
millions of dollars like some of these
companies
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm gonna break down seven shortcuts to
becoming a global brand and best of all
you won't have to spend tons of money
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
you can always tweet at me if you have
any questions or just leave a comment
below in the video
a little bit about me i have an ad
agency neil patel digital where i help
companies get more traffic i've worked
with a lot of big brands as you can see
on the right side i've created a lot of
companies and these companies have
allowed me to see a ton of data which
has given me the upper hand when it
comes to marketing experimentation and
figuring out what's working in the
future
hence i have tons of testimonials
your brand is your moat so you need to
invest in it my brand's what's allowed
companies like facebook to hit me up and
offer me money to speak at their events
or even google and if you're wondering
how i got all of this it's by building a
brand and the channel that's really
helped me get there more than any other
channel out there is my blog it drives
tons and tons of traffic and it's just
grown over the years and i keep getting
more and more visitors over time
so are you ready to build a global brand
here are the seven facts that you need
to know to succeed and you have to
follow these fact number one you need a
blog
brands are the solution not the problem
brands are how you sort out the cesspool
this is a quote from the ex-ceo of
google eric schmidt and he breaks down
how in essence you need to build a brand
one of the great ways to build a brand
is a blog because the more you educate
the more people get to know you so let's
look at the data
marketing spend by channel google
adwords facebook ads
seo then content marketing social media
makes sense you know google ads is
google adwords is a big company and then
facebook's underneath them and when you
look at conversion rate by channel
adwords makes sense because you know you
can pick your landing page and you can
be
very light on the content just focus on
your opt-ins or your
product or service that you're selling
facebook ads people aren't really
googling cheap laptop so the conversion
rate isn't going to be as high but the
cost is typically less then you have seo
which is next but you have to put a ton
of content on the page so the conversion
rate is going to be lower and then when
you look at return on marketing spend
seo tends to produce the highest return
over time but when you look at what
portion of customers first found you
through your blog the data showing that
it is blogging and blogging is very high
and even when we look at the data past
2019 we're actually seeing similar data
as well
average number of social shares per post
going down and that's because social
networks want you to spend money
percentage of your organic search
traffic going to your blog it's pretty
steady but it's high up there's well
over 50 percent if you want that traffic
you need to create a blog
and where are you publishing your
content people mainly publish it on
their blog because that's your own
destiny you control it more and what has
led to your biggest traffic gains
translating content updating content
those two have led to the biggest
traffic gains and if you want to do well
in blogging you need to follow that
because the majority of the people in
this world don't search in english right
they speak other languages
and because there's over a billion blogs
google wants to rank updated content
facebook wants to share updated content
you know they don't want stale outdated
content now what's cool about blogging
is it builds a brand it drives traffic
and it drives sales
so how should you get started i
recommend that you blog at least once a
week
and keep in mind it's all about the
headline if you're looking for really
good catchy headlines just google copy
blogger headline formula they have quite
a few that you can use
don't solve first just educate
write in a conversational tone using the
words you or i in sentences
use subheadings so people can skim i
also recommend that you keep your
paragraph short to around five six lines
max
and spend eighty percent of your time
promoting i know that sounds crazy i'm
not talking about promoting your
business like selling your products i'm
talking about spend 20 of your time
writing content 80 of the time promoting
the content like getting it shared on
the social web outreaching getting
people to link to you
now once you've been blogging for a long
time and you have an audience i
recommend you spend around 30 of your
time promoting your content but at the
beginning you need to spend roughly 80.
fact number two you have to take an
omni-channel approach if you want to
build a brand
marketing is moving to omni-channel
approach
i was once working
with expedia canada years and years ago
and i learned something interesting from
expedia
even though they're a massive brand and
everyone already knew about them this
was you know a few years ago
expedia told me that hey when we ran
television ads when we ran radio ads tv
ads uh
i technically already mentioned tv when
we ran magazine ads when we did google
ads facebook ads
and all the channels we could go out
there
our cpas throughout all channels went
down and we had a much higher roi
even though everyone already knew
expedia but because they were
continually being top of mind it reduced
their cost and produced a better return
so if you want to go out there and you
want to do well you need to have an omni
channel approach and when i surveyed
people and i said hey what marketing
channel do you think has the most
potential people said instagram was
number one youtube number two
podcasting number three and then the
list went down i think conferences
definitely have a big potential
especially because people haven't been
to them in a while due to covid um voice
people haven't figured out how to really
monetize that voice traffic but a lot of
potential there so can you guess where
my customers find me well i have a blog
i have youtube videos facebook channel
linkedin instagram i tweet
and when i break it down it's actually
43 for my blog 11 from facebook percent
from linkedin nine percent from youtube
four percent from twitter and twenty
four percent for other
that just shows you that you gotta take
an omni channel approach
fact number three you need to be
yourself when you're building a brand
whether it's a corporate brand or even
personal
you're not someone else i'm not that
muscle-bound jock with six-pack abs and
i'm not going to post those selfies i
just be myself and there's nothing wrong
with being that jock either i know a lot
of jocks and funny enough you know i
know the saying goes that jocks are dumb
they're not dumb i know a lot of smart
jocks
i know many jocks who are more ripped
than me technically i'm not ripped at
all or strong at all but they're
stronger than me and they're much
smarter than me and they went to better
schools
and a lot of them are more rich than i
am as well but you got to be yourself
play on to your strengths you know three
things about me i live very private life
i'm super technical and nerdy and i'm
quirky and when you look at my instagram
i have a lot of images with stats and
data try to make things conversational
and fun
i post images that are just myself like
me sleeping on my couch with that hat i
like it i don't know why uh when it gets
cold i do that i'm kind of cheap i don't
like paying for
heating and aid you know or even air
conditioning i just believe that you
dress more warm
and i'm not gary vee you know gary's
awesome love his content but i don't try
to create content like him because i'm
not him i try to do what's me
so i create more tools
and i write more blog content because
that's me and that's what works for me
and you gotta find what works for you
you can't just copy me you got to figure
out what works for you
so what are you good at and whatever
you're good at that's where i want you
to spend more time fact number four
video is the quickest way to build a
brand
think of a popular personal brand who
are you thinking of
now whoever you're thinking of you
didn't google to find them you probably
have seen them on tv or some sort of
video
and that's why i love youtube youtube
just drives so much traffic and then you
can take that content repurpose it put
on linkedin and then re-upload those
videos on facebook and same with
instagram and it just drives a lot of
awareness i rank on youtube for a lot of
terms and it just keeps giving and
giving and that's why i love youtube
and but funny enough my name is my most
popular query on youtube
and that's the power of branding and
even videos and youtube consistently
provides consistent growth
so 10 quick ways to skyrocket your
youtube views one research keywords you
can use ubersuggest for this type in
keywords pick the ones that are
popular two use catchy headlines you can
use tools like
or more so copy blogger google copy blog
headline formula to find headline
formulas and variations of headlines
that you can use for youtube
use those keywords within your videos
within your text push people to
subscribe to your video so when they
start or when you're starting your video
always tell people to subscribe
make your videos at least five minutes i
ideally recommend that you make them
closer to 10 minutes
leverage email so whenever you publish a
video email it out to your audience use
social media to promote your content
use srt files and you can get them from
places like rev.com
and then hook people
start with the awesome amazing hook
that's like oh really i didn't know that
let me keep listening to find out more
and always ask for comments at the end
of your videos
fact number five you need to get
personal to build a personal brand
what's the best way to build a personal
brand it's to build a connection with
someone else
and when you build that connection
you're going to do extremely well now
you're probably asking hey how do i
build that personal connection what's
the key
well you want to get intimate you want
to be transparent you want to truly care
about people you want to help them you
want to love what you're doing
and all that really helps
so what's the second best way to build a
connection with someone well
what i tell people is go to conferences
those in-person events
nothing's better than that other than
the online aspects because you can do it
at scale hence i say it the second best
way
so when you go to events and if you can
go to at least four events a year and
try to speak and even if they're small
events and try to go live a few times a
week on instagram and social media
you'll do really well and you'll build
that personal connection
fact number six repurposing gets you
more mileage
so i take a lot of my content and i
repurpose it and that's what you'll see
with all my images and that's what they
have in common
i'll take them push them everywhere
repurpose it with quotes tell people to
double tap
that model is easy because you can use
the same videos or images all over all
your social channels and get those likes
and shares and you can do something
similar with videos as well and i found
that to work super super well too
and you don't have to create new content
to build a brand you can just repurpose
and that's what i do
fact number seven you have to put in
time
if you look at mark zuckerberg michael
jordan michael phelps they didn't get
great at what they did by just
going out there and just expecting it to
all work they put in a lot of time and
effort the amount of time they spent
swimming or playing basketball or you
know perfecting their business
it was just endless they even spent so
much time you know just continually
going out there when no one was ever
paying attention
good things don't happen overnight kobe
bryant scored 60 points during his last
game can you guess how much he scored
during his first game
well he took one shot and he missed it
so pretty much zero but you know what he
didn't stop there he just kept going and
personal branding follows the rule of
seven when someone sees or interacts
with your brand seven times they're much
more likely to remember it and that's
how you grow your brand over time in
your competition spilling their beans
online go take the time to learn for
what's working with them when it comes
to building their brand and go replicate
the reality is building a brand never
stops if you stop people start
forgetting about you it takes a long
time you need to keep pushing and
something's better than nothing so do
whatever you have it isn't a zero-sum
game
look there's three types of people those
that make things happen those that watch
things happen and those are wondering
what just happened be the person that
makes things happen and grow your brand
i hope you enjoy this and i hope you
start building a brand if you have any
questions leave a comment below if you
enjoyed this video like it share it tell
the people about it and if you want my
ad agency to help you build a brand
check out np digital thank you very much